+++
title = "Types of knowledge in Software Engineering"
date = "2022-06-27T12:25:00+0700"
author = "An7"
authorTwitter = ""
tags = []
keywords = []
description = 'Distinction between facts, "original knowledge", "speculation knowledge" and "inferred knowledge".'
showFullContent = false
readingTime = true
hideComments = false
+++

A decent engineer should be able to differentiate the types of knowledge they'll
be acquiring throughout their research/learning time. Here is my take on it,
based on what I know and encountered when I was researching OAuth.

## Facts

Facts are the absolute truth and are always right.

But sometimes even the inventor of a technology couldn't condense the fact into
the docs. Things he/she thought is true might not actually be true. Though it
happens only on some occasions, everyone should always take things with a grain
of salt, which leads to the...

## Original knowledge

Original knowledge are things that the original creator says that they're true.
For example, if they say it is _blazingly fast_, then indeed it is. üêß

Original knowledge ranges from the original documentation to the Request For
Comment (RFC). Anything authoritative from credible sources is considered
original knowledge. It is most of the time the correct place to look for
answers, but if there is no answer to the problem one's searching for, then it
gets a little bit more tricky.

## Speculation knowledge

Suppose there is a problem that no one has ever solved. They seek help from
StackOverflow, and some hospitable people on SO came and authored a genius
solution. Sometimes it is indeed, but you might have already figured out that I
lied about the former if you're a seasoned engineer.

Speculation knowledge are things _people_ come up with. By _people_ I mean the
people who have not comprehended the entirety of the problem but still came up
with an answer decent enough that makes a portion of people think that it is
correct.

The problem with this type of knowledge is that it is not necessary the right
answer or solution, but it is sometimes so widespread that it is believed to be
true. For example:

[Link to the answer on SO](https://stackoverflow.com/a/61106253)

![](/images/uploads/where-to-store-access-token-in-react-js_hzelfl.png)

It's gotten some hefty upvotes eh?

There are some words that are present in the proposed solution: "recommend" and
"suggested". That's why this kind of solution is considered, in my opinion,
speculation.

(**Technical warning**) To be clear, there is nothing wrong with the solution.
It works if the Access Token cookie is set by the backend which also serves API
endpoints. But what if it doesn't? If the OP suddenly wants to "Login with
Google", so the server which spits out the Access Token cookie is Google, and
the backend is homemade, then how does the backend access the cookie? Certainly,
the solution only applies to a very specific scenario, and it is not clearly
highlighted: the exact scenario is not mentioned in the solution, and there is
no mention of any alternatives.

Adding some significant upvotes and you have a popular speculation knowledge.
This is kind of a no-brainer, but do your research before applying blindly.

## Inferred knowledge

Inferred knowledge are things an engineer considered correct but no one has ever
told them so. It's mostly intuition, and it _might_ be correct. For something to
be "correct" takes some validation and sometimes _opinion_, but if the knowledge
turns out to be a misunderstanding assumption, then the knowledge serves very
little purpose.

For example, based on what you know from a book from college about how a CPU
does its caching, you can infer that your CPU also does the same thing. But it
is an assumption because no one has ever told you that your exact model of CPU
does the same method of caching. The assumption _might_ be correct, but to be
sure, you have to dig much deeper than widespread knowledge.

Making assumptions about how things work is a very normal engineer's thing to
do. But the truth is sometimes not that trivial. Really dig deep into the truth.
That is what really separates an engineer from a normie (seriously.)
